Module 8: Storing and Consuming Files from Azure Storage

Lab: Storing Generated Documents in Azure Storage Blobs

### Exercise 1: Implementing Azure Storage Blobs

####   Task 1: Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal {#task-1-sign-in-to-the-azure-preview-portal .ProcedureHeading}

<span id="List_148" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.

<span id="List_147" class="anchor"></span>Go to
<https://portal.azure.com>

<span id="List_146" class="anchor"></span>Type the email address of your
Microsoft account.

<span id="List_145" class="anchor"></span>Click **Continue**.

<span id="List_144" class="anchor"></span>Type the password for your
Microsoft account.

<span id="List_143" class="anchor"></span>Click **Sign In**.

####   Task 2: Create a container by using the Management Portal {#task-2-create-a-container-by-using-the-management-portal .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_142" class="anchor"></span>In the navigation pane on
    the left side of the screen, scroll down, and then click **Browse**.

<span id="List_141" class="anchor"></span>In the **Browse** blade that
displays, click **Storage**.

<span id="List_140" class="anchor"></span>In the **Storage** blade that
displays, view the list of Storage instances.

<span id="List_139" class="anchor"></span>In the list of Storage
instances, locate the storage account with the prefix **stor20532**.

<span id="List_138" class="anchor"></span>Click the name of the storage
account to go to its dashboard.

<span id="List_137" class="anchor"></span>In the **stor20532*[Your Name
Here*]** blade that displays, click the **Containers** tile.

<span id="List_136" class="anchor"></span>In the **Containers** blade
that displays, view the list of your containers.

<span id="List_135" class="anchor"></span>At the top of the blade, click
**Add**.

<span id="List_134" class="anchor"></span>In the **Add a container**
blade that displays, perform the following steps:

<span id="List_133" class="anchor"></span>In the **Name** box, type
**example**.

<span id="List_132" class="anchor"></span>In the **Access Type** list,
select **Container**.

<span id="List_131" class="anchor"></span>Click **OK** to create your
container.

####   Task 3: Add and access blob files in your container {#task-3-add-and-access-blob-files-in-your-container .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_130" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click
    the **Visual Studio 2013** tile.

<span id="List_129" class="anchor"></span>On the **View** menu, click
**Server Explorer**.

<span id="List_128" class="anchor"></span>Locate the **Azure** node, and
then click the arrow that is on the left side of the node.

<span id="List_127" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Storage** node
under the **Azure** node.

> ![](media/image1.wmf) **Note:** If you have not previously indicated
> that you want Visual Studio to remember your credentials, you will be
> prompted to enter your Microsoft account username and password to
> continue.

<span id="List_125" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **stor20532*[Your
Name]*** account node under the **Storage** node.

<span id="List_124" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Blobs** node
under your storage account’s node.

<span id="List_123" class="anchor"></span>Double-click **example**.

<span id="List_122" class="anchor"></span>In the example [Container]
tab, click Upload Blob.

> ![](media/image1.wmf) **Note:** The icon on the upload button includes
> an arrow that is pointing upward to a horizontal line.

<span id="List_120" class="anchor"></span>In the **Upload New File**
dialog box, perform the following steps:

a.  <span id="List_119" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Browse**
    button.

<span id="List_118" class="anchor"></span>Go to the
**(F):\\Mod08\\LabFiles\\Starter\\** directory.

<span id="List_117" class="anchor"></span>Click the **samplefile** text
document.

<span id="List_116" class="anchor"></span>Click **Open**.

<span id="List_115" class="anchor"></span>Click **OK**.

<span id="List_114" class="anchor"></span>Switch to the Internet
Explorer window.

<span id="List_113" class="anchor"></span>In a new tab, type the
following URL by replacing **[*storage account*]** with the name of your
storage account:

http://[*storage account*].blob.core.windows.net/example/samplefile.txt

<span id="List_112" class="anchor"></span>Verify that the text **This is
your sample file!** displays in the browser.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a
blob container by using the Management Portal and viewed the blobs in
the container.

### Exercise 2: Populating the Container with Files and Media

####   Task 1: Open the blob helper in the cloud service worker project {#task-1-open-the-blob-helper-in-the-cloud-service-worker-project .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_108" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click
    the **Desktop**.

<span id="List_107" class="anchor"></span>On the taskbar, click **File
Explorer**.

<span id="List_106" class="anchor"></span>In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod08\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then
double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.

<span id="List_105" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder.

<span id="List_104" class="anchor"></span>In the Solution Explorer pane,
expand the Contoso.Events.Worker project.

<span id="List_103" class="anchor"></span>Double-click the
**BlobStorageHelper.cs** file.

####   Task 2: Add Word documents to the container after they are created {#task-2-add-word-documents-to-the-container-after-they-are-created .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_102" class="anchor"></span>In the
    **BlobStorageHelper** class, find the method with the following
    signature:

public Uri CreateBlob(MemoryStream stream, string eventKey)

<span id="List_101" class="anchor"></span>Remove the following single
line of code in the class:

return null;

<span id="List_100" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
**CloudBlobContainer** for the **signin** container.

CloudBlobContainer container =
\_blobClient.GetContainerReference("signin");

<span id="List_99" class="anchor"></span>Call the **CreateIfNotExists**
method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable to ensure that the container
exists**:**

container.CreateIfNotExists();

<span id="List_98" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
variable named *blobName*:

string blobName;

<span id="List_97" class="anchor"></span>Use the **String.Format**
static method to create a string, and then assign the string to the
*blobName* variable:

blobName = String.Format("{0}\_SignIn\_{1:ddmmyyyss}.docx", eventKey,
DateTime.UtcNow);

<span id="List_96" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a block
blob reference by using the **GetBlockBlobReference** method and the
*blobName* variable as the parameter:

ICloudBlob blob = container.GetBlockBlobReference(blobName);

<span id="List_95" class="anchor"></span>Use the **Seek** method of the
*MemoryStream* variable to set the position of the stream to the
beginning and offset the position by the value of **0**:

stream.Seek(0, SeekOrigin.Begin);

<span id="List_94" class="anchor"></span>Use the **UploadFromStream**
method of the **ICloudBlob** interface to upload the stream to the
referenced blob:

blob.UploadFromStream(stream);

<span id="List_93" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, add the
following statement:

<span id="List_92" class="anchor"></span>return blob.Uri;

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the
Azure Storage SDK to manage blobs and containers in your storage
account.

### Exercise 3: Retrieving Files and Media from the Container

####   Task 1: Download documents from blob storage and stream to the client {#task-1-download-documents-from-blob-storage-and-stream-to-the-client .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_89" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.

<span id="List_88" class="anchor"></span>In the Solution Explorer pane,
expand the Contoso.Events.ViewModels project.

<span id="List_87" class="anchor"></span>Double-click the
**DownloadViewModel.cs** file.

<span id="List_86" class="anchor"></span>In the **DownloadViewModel**
class, find the method with the following signature:

public async Task\<DownloadPayload\> GetStream()

<span id="List_85" class="anchor"></span>Remove the following single
line of code in the class:

return await Task.FromResult\<DownloadPayload\>(null);

<span id="List_84" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the **GetStream**
method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
**CloudBlobClient** variable for the *\_storageAccount* variable:

CloudBlobClient blobClient = \_storageAccount.CreateCloudBlobClient();

<span id="List_83" class="anchor"></span>Create a new
**CloudBlobContainer** instance for the **signin** container by using
the *CloudBlobClient* variable:

CloudBlobContainer container =
blobClient.GetContainerReference("signin");

<span id="List_82" class="anchor"></span>Call the **CreateIfNotExists**
method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable to ensure that the container
exists:

container.CreateIfNotExists();

<span id="List_81" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the **GetStream**
method and before the closing parenthesis, create a block blob reference
by using the **GetBlockBlobReference** method and the *\_blobId*
variable as the parameter:

ICloudBlob blob = container.GetBlockBlobReference(\_blobId);

<span id="List_80" class="anchor"></span>Use the **OpenReadAsync**
method of the *ICloudBlob* variable to create a **Stream** and store it
in a variable:

Stream blobStream = await blob.OpenReadAsync();

<span id="List_79" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the **GetStream**
method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new instance of the
**DownloadPayload** class:

DownloadPayload payload = new DownloadPayload();

<span id="List_78" class="anchor"></span>Assign the **Stream** variable
to the **DownloadPayload** variable’s **Stream** property:

payload.Stream = blobStream;

<span id="List_77" class="anchor"></span>Assign the *ICloudBlob*
variable’s **Properties.ContentType** value to the *DownloadPayload*
variable’s **ContentType** property:

payload.ContentType = blob.Properties.ContentType;

<span id="List_76" class="anchor"></span>Return the *DownloadPayload*
variable:

<span id="List_75" class="anchor"></span>return payload;

####   Task 2: Generate the Test Data {#task-2-generate-the-test-data .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_74" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, type
    **Azure Storage Emulator**.

<span id="List_73" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Windows Azure
Storage Emulator – v3.4** tile.

<span id="List_72" class="anchor"></span>Switch to **Contoso.Events –
Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

<span id="List_71" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project, point
to **Debug**, and then click **Start New Instance**.

####   Task 3: Download generated sign-in sheets from the blob storage {#task-3-download-generated-sign-in-sheets-from-the-blob-storage .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_70" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events** solution, and
    then click **Properties**.

<span id="List_69" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution**
‘**Contoso.Events’** **Property Pages** dialog box, perform the
following steps:

a.  <span id="List_68" class="anchor"></span>Make sure that
    **CommonProperties** =\> **Startup Project** is selected in the
    navigation menu on the left.

<span id="List_67" class="anchor"></span>Select **Multiple startup
projects**.

<span id="List_66" class="anchor"></span>For **Contoso.Events.Cloud**,
set the **Action** to **Start**.

<span id="List_65" class="anchor"></span>For
**Contoso.Events.Management**, set the **Action** to **Start without
debugging**.

<span id="List_64" class="anchor"></span>Ensure that all the remaining
projects have their **Action** set to **None**.

<span id="List_63" class="anchor"></span>Click **OK** to close the
dialog box.

<span id="List_62" class="anchor"></span>On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.

<span id="List_61" class="anchor"></span>In the Windows **notification
area**, click the arrow to see the running applications.

<span id="List_60" class="anchor"></span>Locate **IIS Express*,*** and
right-click the icon.

<span id="List_59" class="anchor"></span>Point to
**Contoso.Events.Management** under the **View Sites** header, and then
click the URL under the **Browse Applications** header.

<span id="List_58" class="anchor"></span>Point to
**Contoso.Events.Cloud** under the **View Sites** header, and then click
the URL under the **Browse Applications** header.

<span id="List_57" class="anchor"></span>On the home page for the
**Administration** web application, click the button to view the list of
events.

<span id="List_56" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Sign-In Sheet**
button for any event in the list.

<span id="List_55" class="anchor"></span>View the sign-in page that
notifies you that a sign-in sheet is being generated.

<span id="List_54" class="anchor"></span>Wait for one to two minutes,
and then refresh the sign-in sheet page.

<span id="List_53" class="anchor"></span>Click **Sign-In Sheet** to
download the sign-in sheet from the server.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have downloaded
blobs from your storage account by using the Azure Storage SDK.

### Exercise 4: Specifying Permissions for the Container

####   Task 1: Modify Container Access using Server Explorer {#task-1-modify-container-access-using-server-explorer .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_48" class="anchor"></span>On the desktop, click the
    Contoso.Events - Visual Studio 2013 window.

<span id="List_47" class="anchor"></span>On the **Debug** menu, click
**Stop Debugging**.

<span id="List_46" class="anchor"></span>On the **View** menu, click
**Server Explorer**.

<span id="List_45" class="anchor"></span>Locate the **Azure** node, and
then click the arrow that is on the left side of the node.

<span id="List_44" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Storage** node
under the **Azure** node.

<span id="List_43" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Development**
account node under the **Storage** node.

<span id="List_42" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Blobs** node under
**Development** account node.

<span id="List_41" class="anchor"></span>Right-click the **signin**
container, and then click **Properties**.

<span id="List_40" class="anchor"></span>In the **Properties** pane,
locate **Public Read Access**.

<span id="List_39" class="anchor"></span>Ensure that the value of the
**Public Read Access** property is set to **Off**.

####   Task 2: Generate temporary SAS tokens by using the SDK {#task-2-generate-temporary-sas-tokens-by-using-the-sdk .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_37" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.

<span id="List_36" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.

<span id="List_35" class="anchor"></span>Double-click the
**DownloadViewModel.cs** file.

<span id="List_34" class="anchor"></span>In the **DownloadViewModel**
class, find the method with the following signature:

public async Task\<string\> GetSecureUrl()

<span id="List_33" class="anchor"></span>Remove the single line of code
in the class:

return await Task.FromResult\<string\>(String.Empty);

<span id="List_32" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
**CloudBlobClient** for the *\_storageAccount* variable.

CloudBlobClient blobClient = \_storageAccount.CreateCloudBlobClient();

<span id="List_31" class="anchor"></span>Create a new
**CloudBlobContainer** for the **signin** container by using the
*CloudBlobClient* variable.

CloudBlobContainer container =
blobClient.GetContainerReference("signin");

<span id="List_30" class="anchor"></span>Call the **CreateIfNotExists**
method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable to ensure that the container
exists**:**

container.CreateIfNotExists();

<span id="List_29" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
instance of the **SharedAccessBlobPolicy** class:

SharedAccessBlobPolicy blobPolicy = new SharedAccessBlobPolicy();

<span id="List_28" class="anchor"></span>Set the
*SharedAccessBlobPolicy* variable’s **SharedAccessExpiryTime** property
to 15 minutes from the current time:

blobPolicy.SharedAccessExpiryTime = DateTime.Now.AddHours(0.25d);

<span id="List_27" class="anchor"></span>Set the
*SharedAccessBlobPolicy* variable’s **Permissions** property to
**SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Read**:

blobPolicy.Permissions = SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Read;

<span id="List_26" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
instance of the **BlobContainerPermissions** class:

BlobContainerPermissions blobPermissions = new
BlobContainerPermissions();

<span id="List_25" class="anchor"></span>Add the newly created
**SharedAccessBlobPolicy** to the *BlobContainerPermissions* variable’s
**SharedAccessPolicy** with the key **“ReadBlobPolicy”**:

blobPermissions.SharedAccessPolicies.Add("ReadBlobPolicy", blobPolicy);

<span id="List_24" class="anchor"></span>Set the
*BlobContainerPermissions* variable’s **PublicAccess** property to
**BlobContainerPublicAccessType.Off**:

blobPermissions.PublicAccess = BlobContainerPublicAccessType.Off;

<span id="List_23" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, call the
asynchronous **SetPermissionsAsync** method of the *CloudBlobContainer*
variable by using the *BlobContainerPermissions* variable as the
parameter:

await container.SetPermissionsAsync(blobPermissions);

<span id="List_22" class="anchor"></span>Invoke the
**GetSharedAccessSignature** method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable
by using a new instance of the **SharedAccessBlobPolicy** class as the
first parameter and the **“ReadBlobPolicy”** key as the second
parameter:

string sasToken = container.GetSharedAccessSignature(new
SharedAccessBlobPolicy(), "ReadBlobPolicy");

<span id="List_21" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a
block blob reference by using the **GetBlockBlobReference** method and
the *\_blobId* variable as the parameter:

ICloudBlob blob = container.GetBlockBlobReference(\_blobId);

<span id="List_20" class="anchor"></span>Take the **Uri** property of
the *ICloudBlob* variable and store it in a new *Uri* variable.

Uri blobUrl = blob.Uri;

<span id="List_19" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, concatenate
the **AbsoluteUri** of the *Uri* variable and the *sasToken* variable:

string secureUrl = blobUrl.AbsoluteUri + sasToken;

<span id="List_18" class="anchor"></span>Return the string variable as
the result of the method:

<span id="List_17" class="anchor"></span>return secureUrl;

####   Task 3: Download documents from a protected container by using the SAS token {#task-3-download-documents-from-a-protected-container-by-using-the-sas-token .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_16" class="anchor"></span>On the **Debug** menu,
    click **Start Debugging**.

<span id="List_15" class="anchor"></span>In the notification area, click
the arrow to see the running applications.

<span id="List_14" class="anchor"></span>Locate **IIS Express**, and
then right-click the icon.

<span id="List_13" class="anchor"></span>Point to the
**Contoso.Events.Management** option under the **View Sites** header,
and then click the URL under the **Browse Applications** header.

<span id="List_12" class="anchor"></span>On the home page for the
**Administration** web application, click the button to view the list of
events.

<span id="List_11" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Sign-In Sheet**
button for any event in the list.

<span id="List_10" class="anchor"></span>View the sign-in page which
notifies you that a sign-in sheet is being generated.

<span id="List_9" class="anchor"></span>Wait for one or two minutes, and
then refresh the sign-in sheet page.

<span id="List_8" class="anchor"></span>Click **Sign-In Sheet** to
download the sign-in sheet from the server by using the blob Url.

<span id="List_7" class="anchor"></span>Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.

<span id="List_6" class="anchor"></span>Close the **Contoso.Events -
Visual Studio** application.

<span id="List_5" class="anchor"></span>Close the **Azure Storage
Emulator** command prompt (cmd.exe).

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have modified the
permissions of the containers and generated SAS tokens for the
containers.

**\
**

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
