Module 3: Hosting Web Applications on the Azure Platform

Lab: Creating an ASP.NET Website by Using Azure Websites

### Exercise 1: Creating an Azure Website

####   Task 1: Create a Website instance by using the Management Portal {#task-1-create-a-website-instance-by-using-the-management-portal .ProcedureHeading}

<span id="List_107" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.

<span id="List_106" class="anchor"></span>Go to
[*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com).

<span id="List_105" class="anchor"></span>In the email address box, type
the email address of your Microsoft account.

<span id="List_104" class="anchor"></span>In the password box, type the
password for your Microsoft account.

<span id="List_103" class="anchor"></span>Click **Sign In**.

> ![](media/image1.wmf) **Note:** If this is your first time logging in
> to the Management Portal, you may be prompted with a “Welcome” dialog.
> You can safely close this dialog and continue.

<span id="List_100" class="anchor"></span>In the navigation pane on the
left side of the screen, click **Websites**.

<span id="List_99" class="anchor"></span>Click **+New** button at the
lower –left corner of the screen.

<span id="List_98" class="anchor"></span>Click **Custom Create**.

<span id="List_97" class="anchor"></span>In the form that displays,
perform the following steps:

<span id="List_96" class="anchor"></span>In the **Web Hosting Plan**
list, select **Create New Web Hosting Plan**.

<span id="List_95" class="anchor"></span>In the **Region** list, select
the region that is closest to your location.

<span id="List_94" class="anchor"></span>In the **URL** dialog box,
create a unique name for your website.

<span id="List_93" class="anchor"></span>In the **Database** list,
select **Create a free 20 MB SQL database**.

<span id="List_92" class="anchor"></span>In the **DB Connection String
Name** box, type **EventsContextConnectionString**.

<span id="List_91" class="anchor"></span>Click the next arrow button.

<span id="List_90" class="anchor"></span>In the **Name** box, type
**EventsContextDB**.

<span id="List_89" class="anchor"></span>In the **Server** box, click
**New SQL database server**.

<span id="List_88" class="anchor"></span>In the **Server Login Name**
dialog box, create a user name for your administrative SQL user.

<span id="List_87" class="anchor"></span>In the **Server Login
Password** and **Confirm Password** dialog boxes, create a password for
your administrative SQL user.

<span id="List_86" class="anchor"></span>Click the check mark button to
create your Website and SQL database.

####   Task 2: Go to the newly created Website's placeholder page {#task-2-go-to-the-newly-created-websites-placeholder-page .ProcedureHeading}

> ![](media/image1.wmf) **Note:** Creating a Website is typically very
> fast, but you have to wait for the Website to be created and running
> before you can go to the Website. When the Website is running, its
> status displays as Running in the **Websites** list.

1.  <span id="List_85" class="anchor"></span>In the navigation page on
    the left side, click **Websites**.

<span id="List_84" class="anchor"></span>In the **Websites** list, click
the Website that you just created.

<span id="List_83" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Dashboard** tab at
the top of the screen.

<span id="List_82" class="anchor"></span>Locate the **Quick Glance**
section on the right side of the dashboard.

<span id="List_81" class="anchor"></span>Under the **Site Url** header,
click the hyperlink to the Website.

<span id="List_80" class="anchor"></span>Verify that the Website exists.

<span id="List_79" class="anchor"></span>Close the tab displaying the
Website.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the
Management Portal to create Website instances.

### Exercise 2: Deploying an ASP.NET Web Application to an Azure Website

####   Task 1: Open an existing ASP.NET web application project with Visual Studio 2013 {#task-1-open-an-existing-asp.net-web-application-project-with-visual-studio-2013 .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_76" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click
    the **Desktop** tile.

<span id="List_75" class="anchor"></span>On the taskbar, click the
**File Explorer** icon.

<span id="List_74" class="anchor"></span>In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then
double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.

<span id="List_73" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Management** project, and then
click **Set as Startup Project**.

<span id="List_72" class="anchor"></span>On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.

> ![](media/image1.wmf) **Note:** If this is the first time you are
> creating a build for this solution, NuGet will implicitly restore any
> missing packages. You do not have to manually restore the missing
> packages.

<span id="List_69" class="anchor"></span>On the home page of the web
application, verify that a list of three events displays under the
**Latest 3 Events** header.

<span id="List_68" class="anchor"></span>Click **Events** in the
navigation bar at the top of the webpage.

<span id="List_67" class="anchor"></span>Verify that the Events page
displays a list of events.

<span id="List_66" class="anchor"></span>Close the tab displaying the
Website.

####   Task 2: Download the publish profile for the Azure Website {#task-2-download-the-publish-profile-for-the-azure-website .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_65" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click
    the **Internet Explorer** tile.

<span id="List_64" class="anchor"></span>Go to
[*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com).

<span id="List_63" class="anchor"></span>In the email address box, type
the email address of your Microsoft account.

<span id="List_62" class="anchor"></span>In the password box, type the
password for your Microsoft account.

<span id="List_61" class="anchor"></span>Click **Sign In**

<span id="List_60" class="anchor"></span>In the **Websites** list, click
the Website that you just created.

<span id="List_59" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Dashboard** tab.

<span id="List_58" class="anchor"></span>Locate the **Quick Glance**
section on the right side of the dashboard.

<span id="List_57" class="anchor"></span>Click **Download the publish
profile**.

<span id="List_56" class="anchor"></span>In the download dialog box,
click the arrow to the right of the **Save** button, and then click
**Save As**.

<span id="List_55" class="anchor"></span>In the **Save As** dialog box,
go to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles**, and then click **Save**.

####   Task 3: Publish the ASP.NET web application to the Azure Website {#task-3-publish-the-asp.net-web-application-to-the-azure-website .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_53" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio
    window, right-click **Contoso.Events.Management**, and then click
    **Publish**.

<span id="List_52" class="anchor"></span>In the Publish Web window,
click **Import**.

<span id="List_51" class="anchor"></span>In the **Import from a publish
profile file** dialog box, click **Browse**.

<span id="List_50" class="anchor"></span>In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles**, and then double-click your
previously saved publish profile.

<span id="List_49" class="anchor"></span>Click **OK**.

<span id="List_48" class="anchor"></span>Verify that the **Site Name**
dialog box matches your Website’s name.

<span id="List_47" class="anchor"></span>Click **Publish**.

####   Task 4: Verify that the web application is successfully published {#task-4-verify-that-the-web-application-is-successfully-published .ProcedureHeading}

> ![](media/image1.wmf) **Note:** If you see the placeholder page that
> displayed in Exercise 1 - Task 2, it might mean that client-side
> caching is occurring. You can always force refresh your browser and
> cache by pressing Ctrl+F5.

1.  <span id="List_45" class="anchor"></span>On the home page of the web
    application, verify that a list of three events displays under the
    **Latest 3 Events** header.

<span id="List_44" class="anchor"></span>Click **Events** in the
navigation bar at the top of the webpage.

<span id="List_43" class="anchor"></span>Verify that the **Events** page
displays a list of events.

<span id="List_42" class="anchor"></span>Close the tab displaying the
Website.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used a
publish profile to publish web applications directly to a Website.

### Exercise 3: Configuring an Azure Website

####   Task 1: Implement logic to read a configuration setting from app settings {#task-1-implement-logic-to-read-a-configuration-setting-from-app-settings .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_38" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio
    window, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.

<span id="List_37" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, double-click **EventsListViewModel.cs**.

<span id="List_36" class="anchor"></span>Locate the following code in
line 20 of EventsListViewModel.cs:

this.EventCount = 3;

<span id="List_35" class="anchor"></span>Replace the line of code with
the following code:

this.EventCount =
Int32.Parse(ConfigurationManager.AppSettings["EventsListViewModel.EventCount"]);

<span id="List_34" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio window, expand the
**Contoso.Events.Management** project.

<span id="List_33" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, double-click **Web.config**.

<span id="List_32" class="anchor"></span>In the **appSettings** element,
in line 14, add the following line of code:

\<add key="EventsListViewModel.EventCount" value="5" /\>

<span id="List_31" class="anchor"></span>On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.

<span id="List_30" class="anchor"></span>On the home page of the web
application, verify that a list of five events displays under the
**Latest 5 Events** header.

<span id="List_29" class="anchor"></span>Close the tab displaying the
Website.

####   Task 2: Publish web application to the Azure Website {#task-2-publish-web-application-to-the-azure-website .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_27" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio
    window, right-click **Contoso.Events.Management**, and then click
    **Publish**.

<span id="List_26" class="anchor"></span>Click **Publish**.

<span id="List_25" class="anchor"></span>On the home page of the web
application, verify that a list of five events displays under the
**Latest 5 Events** header.

<span id="List_24" class="anchor"></span>Close the tab displaying the
Website.

####   Task 3: Modify the app settings in the Management Portal {#task-3-modify-the-app-settings-in-the-management-portal .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_23" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click
    the **Internet Explorer** tile.

<span id="List_22" class="anchor"></span>Go to
[*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com).

<span id="List_21" class="anchor"></span>In the email address box, type
the email address of your Microsoft account.

<span id="List_20" class="anchor"></span>In the password box, type the
password for your Microsoft account.

<span id="List_19" class="anchor"></span>Click **Sign In**. In the
**Websites** list, click the website that you just created.

<span id="List_18" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Configure** tab.

<span id="List_17" class="anchor"></span>Scroll down to the **App
Settings** section.

<span id="List_16" class="anchor"></span>In the **Key** box, type
**EventsListViewModel.EventCount**.

<span id="List_15" class="anchor"></span>In the **Value** box, type
**2**.

<span id="List_14" class="anchor"></span>Click **Save**.

> ![](media/image1.wmf) **Note:** After you update the configuration
> settings, you must wait for a few seconds to see the configuration
> changes. You will know that the configuration changes are applied when
> the **Configure** tab is editable again.

####   Task 4: Verify that the app settings are successfully updated {#task-4-verify-that-the-app-settings-are-successfully-updated .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_10" class="anchor"></span>Click the **Dashboard** tab
    at the top of the screen.

<span id="List_9" class="anchor"></span>Locate the **Quick Glance**
section on the right side of the dashboard.

<span id="List_8" class="anchor"></span>Under the **Site Url** header,
click the hyperlink to the website.

<span id="List_7" class="anchor"></span>On the home page of the web
application, verify that a list of two events displays under the
**Latest 2 Events** header.

<span id="List_6" class="anchor"></span>Close the tab displaying the
Website.

<span id="List_5" class="anchor"></span>Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.

<span id="List_4" class="anchor"></span>Close the **Contoso.Events -
Microsoft Visual Studio** application.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured
custom app settings by using a Web.config file and the Management
Portal.

### \

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
